- [Instructor] One of the most popular build tools
used with Java is Gradle.
I find the best way to get started with Gradle
is to just dive right in.
So let's start by installing the software
and setting up a simple project.
To begin our installation,
we'll start on the Gradle homepage and just click on
the install Gradle button.
Here we'll find the instructions to install Gradle
on several different operating systems.
If you are installing Gradle on Windows,
you would select the link to install manually
and then follow those instructions.
But since our lab is using Linux, we can click on the option
to install with a package manager.
You'll notice that within the instructions,
it recommends installing Gradle using SDKMAN!.
So let's navigate over to the SDKMAN! homepage,
and we can click on the install button in the menu
in order to get started.
Here we'll find a script that will install SDKMAN!
on our Linux workstation.
Let's just go ahead and copy that,
and then we'll navigate over to a terminal where
I'll paste the script and then just hit enter to execute it.
Okay, it looks like SDKMAN! has installed.
In order to use it in our current terminal,
we'll need to execute this command.
So let's go ahead and copy that,
then I'll clear my terminal, paste the script,
and execute it.
Okay, now we should have SDKMAN! available
within this terminal.
If we return to the Gradle installation documentation,
you'll see our next step is to use SDKMAN!
to install Gradle 7.2.
So I'm going to copy this command, and then I'll return
to the terminal and paste it where I can execute it.
It looks like Gradle is starting to install.
Okay, it looks like the Gradle installation finished.
Let's just go ahead and we can verify that
by running the gradle dash dash version command.
Okay, we can see that Gradle 7.2
is installed on our workstation.
Now let's move on to creating a simple project.
To do that, we're going to work within
our exercise files directory.
That's where we'll create our new project.
The project is going to be named Sandbox, so I'm going to
go ahead and create a directory named Sandbox
inside the exercise files directory.
Then we can just navigate into the Sandbox directory,
and here's where we'll start to use Gradle
to build the new project.
To help with that, we can use the gradle init command.
It's going to walk us through an interactive menu
where we can set up the different configuration
for our project.
Let's get started with that.
The first thing we'll need to specify is the type
of Gradle project that we want to create.
And this is going to determine the directory structure
that Gradle uses when it initializes our project.
Now we're only interested in an application,
so I'm going to select the second option.
Then we'll need to specify what language
our project is going to be using.
Since this is a Java course,
I'm going to select option three for Java.
Then we'll need to determine whether or not we would like
sub projects within our Gradle build.
We're only going to have one application
within this Gradle build, so I'll select the first option.
Then it's going to ask us the DSL that we'd like to use
for our build scripts.
A DSL is a domain specific language which, in this case,
is a small language built specifically for using Gradle.
Gradle has a DSL for both Groovy and Kotlin.
Let's go ahead and we'll use the Groovy DSL for our project,
so I'll select option one.
Next, it's going to ask us to identify
our testing framework.
I'm going to use JUnit Jupiter, which is option four.
Then it will need the name of our project.
We're just going to call this Sandbox,
so I'm going to go with the default option by hitting enter.
Finally, it's going to ask us the package name
where our source code will be placed.
For that, I'm going to use com.linkedin.javacd.
Once I've entered that value, I'll hit enter,
and Gradle builds out our new project.
Let's take a look.
So if we look inside the Sandbox directory,
we see some files related to our Gradle build.
We'll get into those later.
For now, let's run our first Gradle build.
Just type Gradle, and then build, and hit enter,
and you'll see that Gradle will begin to compile
our source code and build our project.
There it looks like it completed successfully.
So now we're up and running with Gradle,
and we just completed our first build.
Let's dive into the details of how that build works
over the upcoming lessons.